Web browsers consist of client software that runs on your com- puter and displays home pages on the Web. There are clients for a wide variety of devices, including Windows, Macintosh, and Unix computers.
A web browser displays information on your computer by interpreting the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) that is used to build home pages on the Web. Home pages usually display graphics, sound, and multimedia files, as well as links to other pages, files that can be downloaded, and other Internet resources.
The coding in the HTML files tells your browser how to dis- play the text, graphics, links, and multimedia files on the home page. The HTML file your browser loads to display the home page doesn’t actually have the graphics, sound, multi- media files, and other resources on it. Instead, it contains HTML references to those graphics and files. Your browser uses those references to find the files on the server and then display them on the home page.
The web browser also interprets HTML tags as links to other websites, or to other web resources, such as graphics, multi- media files, newsgroups, or files to download. Depending on the link, it performs different actions. For example, if the HTML code specifies the link as another home page, the browser retrieves the URL specified in the HTML file when the user clicks the underlined link on the page. If the HTML code specifies a file to be downloaded, the browser down- loads the file to your computer.
￼Web browsers can’t display some types of files on the Internet, notably some kinds of multimedia files, such as sound, video, and animation files. (A common file type like this is called Flash.) To view or play these files, you need what is called a helper application or plug-in. You must configure your web browser or operating system to launch these helper applications and plug-ins whenever you click an object that needs them to be viewed. More often than not, whenen you install the application or plug-in, it will configure itself properly.
The meanings of tags are easily decipherable. Every HTML tag, or instruction, is surrounded by a less-than and a greater-than sign—<P>. Often tags appear in pairs, the beginning tag and the ending tag. They are identical except for a simple slash in the ending tag. So, a paragraph oftextfrequentlyissurroundedbytagssuchasthis:<P> Paragraph of text.</P>. Also, tags are not case sensitive. <P> equals <p>.
